# Lesson 2: your first Repository

Now that you know about the Github home page, let's make your first repository!
To do so, go to the Github website, sign in, and choose the "create" button.
From the menu, choose "new repository."

Now, fill out the information requested about the repository.

## Repository name

This is the name people, and you, can find your repository by. People can find
your repository on your profile, but they can also navigate to it directly using
an address like <https://www.github.com/prater-devin/lessons-general>. So, if
you name your repository "homework", and your username is gentry-student, your
repository would be at <https://www.github.com/gentry-student/homework>.

## Description (optional)

This is where you can describe what your repository is for. If it's for storing
your homework, you can describe it as such.

## Public or Private

A repository can be either public or private. You can use public
repositories for work that you want others to easily find and
use. These lessons are public, for example. Private repositories are
used for work that you do not want others to find and use. Your
homework, for instance, should be private. You can, however, still
share a link to a private repository for others to use.

## Add a Readme file

A "Readme" file is a file that tells others what the project will be
about. You can add one even before creating the repository to have an
easy starting point.

##  Add .gitignore 

A .gitignore file is a file which tells Git, and Github, to ignore
this file or filetype. If you're on a Mac, this is useful to hide the
.DS_Store file that is generated by the Mac. If you're on Windows,
it's useful to hide the desktop.ini file. It can also hide code
specific file types that aren't useful.

##  Choose a license 

A license for the repository tells other people what they can and
cannot do with the files in the repository. You may choose to make the
repository with a more open license, like the GPL, or make it
proprietary, so that the work cannot be reused.

----------------

After you've set up the repository how you like, use the "create
repository" button to create it. You now have a repository that you
can work with.

