# Lesson 1: Introduction to Git

Git is a tool for performing version control. Version control refers to having
different versions of one file, or many files, and being able to retrieve an
older version of such files if necisary. The main attraction of Git, though, is
its ability to allow many people to work on one project together, with a history
of what was done, so that the project can be rolled back if necisary.

In this course, we'll mainly be using Git through a service called Github.
Github is a service which offers Git functionality on a large scale. With
Github, you can work together with a team, friends, or coworkers on a project
made of folders and files called a repository, all working on the same files
thanks to version control and Github's online nature. You can also work on a
separate path to work on a part of the project others don't need to see yet, and
then merge your changes into the main project when you're ready. That separate
path is called a "branch" in Git and Github.

## Getting Started on Github

First, you'll need to make an account. Go to <github.com> and choose the "sign
up" link. It'll be after the "site search" field. Once you've clicked, or
pressed Enter on, the "sign up" link, you'll be taken to a page for entering
your information to create an account. Enter the requested information. For
staff, use your AIDB email address, and your username should be your last name,
a dash (-), then your first name, like "prater-devin". Complete the visual or
audio captcha to prove that you're a human, and proceed to create your account.

After you've created your account, verify your email address. After that's done,
you'll find yourself on a page with a list of navigational items, your
repositories that you own or commit to, a dashboard, upcoming events, and notable
repositories.

Starting from the top, there is a "skip to content" link for screen reader
users, a link to the home page for if you get lost, and a "site search" field.

The "site search" field is where you can type in something you're looking for,
and find repositories about that subject. Most repositories on github are
computer code, but there are plenty of repositories of documentation, learning
resources, and even blogs, hosted for free on Github Pages.

